Main topics:

    REMOTE WORK INTRODUCTION
        overarching argument? The rise, sustenance, future outlook of Zoom is both social and technical in nature - aka sociotechnical in nature.

        * we have seen schools and workplaces open in-person in the past year. Data from CDC’s COVID Data Tracker show that, in the United States, the daily number of covid cases is dropping rapidly. And with such positive statistics, I hear that Princeton University recently retracted its mask mandate for students, staff, and faculty. This puts the remote work technology that we have been heavily relying on the past couple years in a very interesting position. So I wanted to look at our collective experience with remote work technologies, specifically the communications technologies, and see where it is headed and see if it will be remembered by future generations as a sort of blast from the past.

        * According to the Pew Research Center, after the coronavirus outbreak, approximately 51% of employed adults shifted to remote working. Such drastic change in work styles gave rise to technologies like zoom, google meet, and microsoft teams. Just last month, in March, Zoom released 10 new updates. Among them is an interesting, new feature release from March 21 that allows users to replace their personas with 3-d virtual avatars that, if I were to just imagine, might introduce some fun into long, strenuous virtual meetings. Largely, though, when we consider these remote working technologies, we see them as replacements for in-person educational implements. Zoom, for example, displays a whiteboard, annotation tools, and a "raise hand" feature that mirror certain aspects of in-person education.
    CONTROVERSIES
        * I’ll focus on Zoom, since it’s received the most press from what I know, but I’ll also touch on Microsoft Teams. One primary concern deals with security and privacy. Just last year around this time, BBC reported that Zoom was accused of transmitting user-data to facebook as well as being economical with the truth when it came to guaranteed end-to-end encryption. There have also been reports by an ex-NSA hacker of potential for microphone and webcam hijacking. The Verge and Bloomberg reported on Zoom disclosing personal information to third parties. Now this was about a year ago, but even now, we see that zoom is still working out the kinks. Just yesterday on April 1, zoom released a new feature that quote "Hides user personal information in contact details. The affected fields are: personal note, company, department, manager, job title, locations, internal number, extension, direct number, phone number, email." That’s a lot, but privacy is not the only concern.

        * I believe Microsoft Teams has also had their fair share of backlash for controversial features. TechRadar expressed concerns on Microsoft allowing meeting moderators to censor communication in a meeting such as deleting certain chat messages which could potentially lead to serious miscommunication and loss of context. 
        
    LIABILITY OF NEWNESS
        It is fascinating to see Zoom’s success despite all these controversies. Dr. Yoo, how did this happen? How was zoom able to become so popular despite these controversies? That’s a great question. And I think that in some ways, we can frame this as a question of how Zoom was able to overcome the problem known as the liability of newness. For many, the introduction of widespread use of virtual communication technologies was a very new thing. Let’s take a trip back to the time at which there was a lot of uncertainty. People weren’t sure they were going to be fully remote or fully virtual. What technologies could be used? What would be the protocol for education? Amidst this time of uncertainty, consider teachers in classrooms, professors in lecture halls, businesspeople in glass buildings all of a sudden being introduced to this somewhat foreign technology that proposes to replace in-person interaction. How would this new, foreign technology have had to be marketed such that it could help tip the scales toward transitioning to fully-remote learning on that technological platform? Here, I think we can look to history to see how innovators of the past overcame such potential hurdles. In 2001, Andrew Hargadon from the University of California and Yellowlees Douglas from the University of Florida published a paper detailing the intentional design and marketing decisions that Edison made to overcome the liability of newness in the system of electric light. At the time, gas lighting was the lighting to use. Consumers were used to gas lighting - the various methods of gas metering and paying for gas, and gas companies were used to the profits that came with the business. To establish the legitimacy of the system of electric light, Edison encapsulated the system of electric light within the infrastructure vocabulary of the system of gas lighting. For example, Edison’s electric lights came with wall designs that were similar to those of gas lighting. The wiring of electric lights were built around gas pipes. And power for electric lighting was produced in central stations, similar to gas lighting. Edison even went so far as to use the same metering technology. Why did Edison do this? By grounding the principles of electric lighting in the norms of the day, he could ease consumers into accepting the new technology. Now bringing us back to today, we can see how zoom was able to establish its legitimacy. In-person education is the established protocol for teaching and learning. To establish its legitimacy, we see how Zoom adopted vocabulary and structure from in-person learning. For example, Zoom adopted a whiteboard function that allows teachers and students to draw figures and write text, similar to classroom whiteboards. Zoom also adopted a "raise hand" function that shows a virtual hand raised when a student wants to ask a question. This doesn’t mean students actually raise their physical hand, but by borrowing the vocabulary of what students and teachers are familiar with, Zoom eases itself into market domination by providing a degree of comfort to its potential consumers. The list goes on. From breakout rooms that provide a structure similar to students physically "breaking out" into smaller groups as with in-person learning, to the waiting room function that mirrors the structure of in-person appointments that have a physical waiting room with a line of people, zoom has made many intentional design decisions that involve the function and naming of various features that have allowed it to flourish as an alternative to in-person communication.

    LOCK-IN
        * I think it also helped that zoom became in some ways, incorporated into Canvas’s platform, which allowed for the larger acceptance of the technology in university institutions as replacements for lectures and precepts. And once this technology became established, as researcher Paul David documented with the QWERTY keyboard layout, this quote "lock-in" of zoom (as opposed to other video conferencing technologies) was hard to reverse due to the quote high costs of software conversion. 

    SCOT MODEL
        * plot of zoom updates - how the updates were pushed by different groups
        *  Boaz: With all of these concerns in mind, who do you think has the power to control zoom’s development going forward? I feel like there are a number of different players, or should I say social groups *wink wink*, in the development of remote work technologies. I think that the tech companies and the software engineers working in them have all the control in the development of remote work software. They are the ones that are doing all the programming for the user interface and feature. This social group sees remote work technologies as an avenue for revenue since they require users to pay for certain features, so this affects the development of the product most, because they want the technology to be efficient (meaning maximizing revenue with as few resources as possible). This means that the product team may initially cut corners in privacy to develop more visible features, like adding the ability to make emoji reactions on your favorite video conferencing app. I would like to hear your take on this.
        Nobline: I have a slightly different interpretation. I believe that the software companies are not the only ones that impact how remote working technologies progress. Let’s take a look at the remote workers, hackers and pranksters, as well as educational institutions and legal persons, and how they play a role in how remote work technology develops. Remote workers view this technology as a way of conducting work in a flexible, convenient, safe, private, and reliable manner. Hackers and pranksters view this technology as a creative workspace for pulling pranks, one example being Zoombombing where these individuals join and disrupt these meetings. Educational institutions see this technology as a unified educational platform; in other words, educational institutions would rather have a single institutional license that helps bring its students into the same network, rather than having each student create their own zoom account on their personal emails. People working in law may see this technology as an avenue through which privacy must be preserved and accountability is clear.
        Boaz: I still think that the tech companies still have the most power in  the development of remote work technologies since they are the ones that actually create and deploy it.
        Nobline: Well, you and I are both correct. The Social Construction of Technology model introduced by Kline and Pinch in 1996 may help us to understand why..
        Boaz: Oh the SCOT model. Isn’t the process of various social groups negotiating the design of remote work technology called interpretative flexibility?
        Nobline: Yes, that’s exactly right.
        Boaz: Ok. So what I understand is that this means that remote workers, hackers and pranksters, software engineers and companies, and educational institutions are pulling the development of the technologies in different directions.
        Nobline: Yes. The various social groups competing against each other have culminated in the remote work technology we have today. In our case, security and privacy demands from end users as well as our awareness of the desires of hackers and prankers have led to the development of extra security features - in the form of meeting passwords in zoom meetings and the waiting-room-like feature in microsoft teams and google meets that prevents bombers from directly entering the meeting room. Remote workers wanting video communication to be more fun have led to the development of fun, customizable features, such as custom video backgrounds, zoom makeup masks, and Together Mode on Microsoft Teams that uses AI to place participants in one shared background. The business minds behind video conferencing technologies want revenue and educational institutions want a unified platform, so we have technologies like zoom, microsoft, and google offering different priced institution-wide licenses.
    DIGITAL DIVIDE
        * does it cause additional problems or solve previous problems?
        I’ve heard talk about the Digital Divide with respect to COVID era. Can we talk some about how Zoom has factored into this? (Technology and Identity - Digital Divide)
        Nobline:
        Research on market penetration of zoom and digital divide
    
    INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
        * harder to protect intellectural property
        Boaz:
        What about the problem of intellectual property? Has this become harder to protect during COVID era when things can be easily recorded, published, and shared - especially that’s being taught in universities. - like educational philosophies and methodologies? - another privacy concern. How do we protect it?
        Nobline:
        Yes, to a certain degree. Some professors don’t even want to share their original slides - how would they feel if suddenly they’re forced to share recording of their whole presentations?
        How to protect…?
    RAMIFICATIONS
        * Nobline: There seems to be a high chance that today’s remote work technology will have a lasting impact on society. Remote workers have gotten a taste of major flexibility in their work and it is unlikely that they will easily let go of this major convenience, a sentiment documented in the Washington Post and Forbes magazine.
        Boaz: However, aren’t there also major issues with maintaining a remote work structure. For starters, colleagues would be spending less and less time physically interacting with each other in the physical office, leading to loss of company culture.
        Nobline: For sure. For sure. There have been studies conducted on exploring the negative physical and mental health of remote workers. There’s zoom fatigue, negative mental health. BMC Public Health published a paper documenting some of the health effects, including stress and strain.
        Boaz: With these negative impacts, shouldn’t workplaces be looking for a mixture of both physical and remote working?
        Nobline: For sure. For sure. That is exactly what is happening. Companies are looking into hybrid-working conditions that have both the flexible qualities of remote work technologies as well as maintaining company values through time-to-time in-person interactions. And I think this might be how we adjust to post-COVID times and live with some of the technologies we have gotten used to.
        Boaz: Well, I think that’s all we have time for today. Thank you Dr. Yoo for joining us. Thanks for tuning in to Let’s Zoom In. Have a wonderful rest of your day!.